Now we're nearing the end of this module,
there is just one important thing that is important to know about mobile apps built with Ionic.
If you're building such a mobile app as I mentioned, in the end what we get is our code, our Ionic app
with tools like Capacitor or Cordova is made available as a mobile app for these native platforms,
so for Android and iOS and now we have two common ways of making that happen.
We could compile our code to native code, so we could compile the code to Java for Android or to Objective
C or Swift for iOS and compiling here especially talks about the templates, so a button, an ion-button
we have in our template could be converted into a real native button or the alternative, we could wrap
our web app into a web view. On native mobile apps,
you can launch a web view in the application to host a web page inside of that app.
You might know that from some apps like Twitter,
if a person links some web page there and you tap it, you don't open your actual browser app and open
the page there
but inside of Twitter, a built-in browser opens up
and this is not a browser developed by the Twitter guys,
it's a so-called web view,
it's in the end a special widget you can use a native app development,
that is a fully fledged browser that doesn't look like one because you don't have a URL bar at
the top and so on,
it just is a fullscreen browser and that is what Ionic uses. With tools like Capacitor or Cordova, you
in the end get a mobile app shell that has such a web view in it and also then has some capabilities of launching
a simple web server, running mobile on the device that hosts your Ionic web app inside of that web
view and then Cordova and Capacitor,
that's the cool thing,
also give you a bridge
so to say through through you can tap into real native device features from inside your web app and
that's the difference to a website running in a normal browser, there
this is not possible, in a Capacitor app that is. So Ionic takes this approach of wrapping your app into
a web
view no matter if you using Capacitor or Cordova.
Now that web view as I mentioned allows you to run your app, a normal web app inside of a native app that
renders this full screen browser.
Now you could say that this has to be slower than a compiled app where you work with the real native widgets
and technically that would be true,
such an app will be a little bit smaller because there is this extra wrapper and it is just a web page
but it is super important to stress here that modern devices are so fast and an Ionic app typically
uses so little performance that you will absolutely not see any difference and then you would just have
the advantage of being able to build a cross-platform app with almost no effort at all, that looks and
feels like a native app, that also is technically a native app and where you can tap into all the native
device features like the camera you might need, just that if you look under the hood, it's not really
compiled down to a native mobile app but instead it's wrapped into a native mobile app
but again, the performance difference will in 99% of all cases not matter
and I do mean it like this, not matter for you and you just reap the benefits.